What is Web identity Federation?
Web identity Federation lets you give your users access to AWB resources after they are successfully authenticated with a web-based identity provider like Amazon Facebook or Google.
Following the successful authentication the user receives an authentication code from the Web ID provider, which they can trade for temporary AWS security credentials.

Amazon Cognito provides Web Identity Federation with the following features:

Sign up and Sign in to your apps
Access for guests users.
Acts as an identity broker between your application and your Web ID providers, so you don't need to write any additional code 
Synchronized user data for multiple devices
Recommended for all mobile application AWS services.

The Recommended approach for Web identity Federation using social media accounts like Facebook.

Cognito brokers between the app and Facebook or Google to provide temporary credentials which map to an IAM role allowing access to the required resources.

No need for the application to embed or store AWS credentials locally on the device and it gives users a seamless experience across all mobile devices.

User pools are user directories used to manage sign-up and sign-in functionality for mobile and web applications.
Users can sign-in directly to the User Pools,or using Facebook, Amazon or Google.
Cognito act as an identity broker between the identity provider and AWS. Successful authentication generates a JSON Web Token (JWT).

Cognito Identity Pools
Identity pools are enabled to provide temporary AWS credentials to access AWOL services like S3 or dynamo database

Cognito Synchronization
Cognito Synchronization the association between user identity and the various different devices that they sign-in from. In order to provide a seamless user experience for your application, Cognitive uses push synchronization to push updates and synchronize user data across multiple devices. Cognitive uses SNS to send a notification to all the devices associated with a given user identity whenever data stored in the cloud changes 

Exam tips.

Federation allows users to authenticate with a web identity provider (Google, Facebook or Amazon)
The user authenticates first with the Web ID provider and receives an authentication token, which is exchange for temporary AWS credentials allowing them to assume IAM role.
Cognito is an Identity broker which handles the interaction between your application and the Webb ID provider(You don't need write your own code to do this)

User pool is user based. It handles things like user registration, authentication and account recovery.
Identity pool authorizes access to your AWS resources.
